Abstract We present a conceptually simple, flexible, and general framework for object instance segmentation. Our approach　efficiently detects objects in an image while simultaneously generating a high-quality segmentation mask for each instance. The method, called Mask R-CNN, extends Faster R-CNN by adding a branch for predicting an object mask in parallel with the existing branch for bounding box recognition. Mask R-CNN is simple to train and adds only a small
overhead to Faster R-CNN, running at 5 fps. Moreover,Mask R-CNN is easy to generalize to other tasks, e.g., allowing us to estimate human poses in the same framework.
We show top results in all three tracks of the COCO suite
of challenges, including instance segmentation, boundingbox object detection, and person keypoint detection. Without bells and whistles, Mask R-CNN outperforms all existing, single-model entries on every task, including the
COCO 2016 challenge winners. We hope our simple and
effective approach will serve as a solid baseline and help
ease future research in instance-level recognition. Code
has been made available at: https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron.
1. Introduction The vision community has rapidly improved object detection and semantic segmentation results over a short period of time. In large part, these advances have been driven
by powerful baseline systems, such as the Fast/Faster RCNN [12, 36] and Fully Convolutional Network (FCN) [30]
frameworks for object detection and semantic segmentation, respectively. These methods are conceptually intuitive
and offer flexibility and robustness, together with fast training and inference time. Our goal in this work is to develop a
comparably enabling framework for instance segmentation.
Instance segmentation is challenging because it requires
the correct detection of all objects in an image while also
precisely segmenting each instance. It therefore combines
elements from the classical computer vision tasks of object detection, where the goal is to classify individual objects and localize each using a bounding box, and semantic segmentation, where the goal is to classify each pixel into
a fixed set of categories without differentiating object instances.1 Given this, one might expect a complex method
is required to achieve good results. However, we show that
a surprisingly simple, flexible, and fast system can surpass
prior state-of-the-art instance segmentation results.
Our method, called Mask R-CNN, extends Faster R-CNN
[36] by adding a branch for predicting segmentation masks
on each Region of Interest (RoI), in parallel with the existing branch for classification and bounding box regression (Figure 1). The mask branch is a small FCN applied
to each RoI, predicting a segmentation mask in a pixel-topixel manner. Mask R-CNN is simple to implement and
train given the Faster R-CNN framework, which facilitates
a wide range of flexible architecture designs. Additionally,
the mask branch only adds a small computational overhead,
enabling a fast system and rapid experimentation.
In principle Mask R-CNN is an intuitive extension of
Faster R-CNN, yet constructing the mask branch properly
is critical for good results. Most importantly, Faster RCNN was not designed for pixel-to-pixel alignment between network inputs and outputs. This is most evident in
how RoIPool [18, 12], the de facto core operation for attending to instances, performs coarse spatial quantization
for feature extraction. To fix the misalignment, we propose a simple, quantization-free layer, called RoIAlign, that
faithfully preserves exact spatial locations. Despite being a seemingly minor change, RoIAlign has a large impact: it
improves mask accuracy by relative 10% to 50%, showing
bigger gains under stricter localization metrics. Second, we
found it essential to decouple mask and class prediction: we
predict a binary mask for each class independently, without
competition among classes, and rely on the network’s RoI
classification branch to predict the category. In contrast,
FCNs usually perform per-pixel multi-class categorization,
which couples segmentation and classification, and based
on our experiments works poorly for instance segmentation.Without bells and whistles, Mask R-CNN surpasses all
previous state-of-the-art single-model results on the COCO
instance segmentation task [28], including the heavilyengineered entries from the 2016 competition winner. As
a by-product, our method also excels on the COCO object
detection task. In ablation experiments, we evaluate multiple basic instantiations, which allows us to demonstrate its
robustness and analyze the effects of core factors.
Our models can run at about 200ms per frame on a GPU,
and training on COCO takes one to two days on a single
8-GPU machine. We believe the fast train and test speeds,
together with the framework’s flexibility and accuracy, will
benefit and ease future research on instance segmentation.
Finally, we showcase the generality of our framework
via the task of human pose estimation on the COCO keypoint dataset [28]. By viewing each keypoint as a one-hot
binary mask, with minimal modification Mask R-CNN can
be applied to detect instance-specific poses. Mask R-CNN
surpasses the winner of the 2016 COCO keypoint competition, and at the same time runs at 5 fps. Mask R-CNN,
therefore, can be seen more broadly as a flexible framework
for instance-level recognition and can be readily extended
to more complex tasks.
We have released code to facilitate future research.2. Related Work
R-CNN: The Region-based CNN (R-CNN) approach [13]
to bounding-box object detection is to attend to a manageable number of candidate object regions [42, 20] and evaluate convolutional networks [25, 24] independently on each
RoI. R-CNN was extended [18, 12] to allow attending to
RoIs on feature maps using RoIPool, leading to fast speed
and better accuracy. Faster R-CNN [36] advanced this
stream by learning the attention mechanism with a Region
Proposal Network (RPN). Faster R-CNN is flexible and robust to many follow-up improvements (e.g., [38, 27, 21]),
and is the current leading framework in several benchmarks.
Instance Segmentation: Driven by the effectiveness of RCNN, many approaches to instance segmentation are based
on segment proposals. Earlier methods [13, 15, 16, 9] resorted to bottom-up segments [42, 2]. DeepMask [33] and
following works [34, 8] learn to propose segment candidates, which are then classified by Fast R-CNN. In these
methods, segmentation precedes recognition, which is slow
and less accurate. Likewise, Dai et al. [10] proposed a complex multiple-stage cascade that predicts segment proposals
from bounding-box proposals, followed by classification.
Instead, our method is based on parallel prediction of masks
and class labels, which is simpler and more flexible.
Most recently, Li et al. [26] combined the segment proposal system in [8] and object detection system in [11] for
“fully convolutional instance segmentation” (FCIS). The
common idea in [8, 11, 26] is to predict a set of positionsensitive output channels fully convolutionally. These
channels simultaneously address object classes, boxes, and
masks, making the system fast. But FCIS exhibits systematic errors on overlapping instances and creates spurious
edges (Figure 6), showing that it is challenged by the fundamental difficulties of segmenting instances.Another family of solutions [23, 4, 3, 29] to instance segmentation are driven by the success of semantic segmentation. Starting from per-pixel classification results (e.g.,
FCN outputs), these methods attempt to cut the pixels of
the same category into different instances. In contrast to the
segmentation-first strategy of these methods, Mask R-CNN
is based on an instance-first strategy. We expect a deeper incorporation of both strategies will be studied in the future.
3. Mask R-CNN 3. Mask R-CNN
Mask R-CNN is conceptually simple: Faster R-CNN has
two outputs for each candidate object, a class label and a
bounding-box offset; to this we add a third branch that outputs the object mask. Mask R-CNN is thus a natural and intuitive idea. But the additional mask output is distinct from
the class and box outputs, requiring extraction of much finer
spatial layout of an object. Next, we introduce the key elements of Mask R-CNN, including pixel-to-pixel alignment,
which is the main missing piece of Fast/Faster R-CNN.
Faster R-CNN: We begin by briefly reviewing the Faster
R-CNN detector [36]. Faster R-CNN consists of two stages.
The first stage, called a Region Proposal Network (RPN),
proposes candidate object bounding boxes. The second
stage, which is in essence Fast R-CNN [12], extracts features using RoIPool from each candidate box and performs
classification and bounding-box regression. The features
used by both stages can be shared for faster inference. We
refer readers to [21] for latest, comprehensive comparisons
between Faster R-CNN and other frameworks.
Mask R-CNN: Mask R-CNN adopts the same two-stage
procedure, with an identical first stage (which is RPN). In
the second stage, in parallel to predicting the class and box
offset, Mask R-CNN also outputs a binary mask for each
RoI. This is in contrast to most recent systems, where classification depends on mask predictions (e.g. [33, 10, 26]).
Our approach follows the spirit of Fast R-CNN [12] that
applies bounding-box classification and regression in parallel (which turned out to largely simplify the multi-stage
pipeline of original R-CNN [13]).
Formally, during training, we define a multi-task loss on
each sampled RoI as L = Lcls + Lbox + Lmask. The classification loss Lcls and bounding-box loss Lbox are identical as those defined in [12]. The mask branch has a Km2
-
dimensional output for each RoI, which encodes K binary
masks of resolution m × m, one for each of the K classes.
To this we apply a per-pixel sigmoid, and define Lmask as
the average binary cross-entropy loss. For an RoI associated
with ground-truth class k, Lmask is only defined on the k-th
mask (other mask outputs do not contribute to the loss).
Our definition of Lmask allows the network to generate
masks for every class without competition among classes;
we rely on the dedicated classification branch to predict the class label used to select the output mask. This decouples
mask and class prediction. This is different from common
practice when applying FCNs [30] to semantic segmentation, which typically uses a per-pixel softmax and a multinomial cross-entropy loss. In that case, masks across classes
compete; in our case, with a per-pixel sigmoid and a binary
loss, they do not. We show by experiments that this formulation is key for good instance segmentation results.
Mask Representation: A mask encodes an input object’s
spatial layout. Thus, unlike class labels or box offsets
that are inevitably collapsed into short output vectors by
fully-connected (fc) layers, extracting the spatial structure
of masks can be addressed naturally by the pixel-to-pixel
correspondence provided by convolutions.
Specifically, we predict an m × m mask from each RoI
using an FCN [30]. This allows each layer in the mask
branch to maintain the explicit m × m object spatial layout without collapsing it into a vector representation that
lacks spatial dimensions. Unlike previous methods that resort to fc layers for mask prediction [33, 34, 10], our fully
convolutional representation requires fewer parameters, and
is more accurate as demonstrated by experiments.
This pixel-to-pixel behavior requires our RoI features,
which themselves are small feature maps, to be well aligned
to faithfully preserve the explicit per-pixel spatial correspondence. This motivated us to develop the following
RoIAlign layer that plays a key role in mask prediction.
RoIAlign: RoIPool [12] is a standard operation for extracting a small feature map (e.g., 7×7) from each RoI. RoIPool
first quantizes a floating-number RoI to the discrete granularity of the feature map, this quantized RoI is then subdivided into spatial bins which are themselves quantized, and
finally feature values covered by each bin are aggregated
(usually by max pooling). Quantization is performed, e.g.,
on a continuous coordinate x by computing [x/16], where
16 is a feature map stride and [·] is rounding; likewise, quantization is performed when dividing into bins (e.g., 7×7).
These quantizations introduce misalignments between the
RoI and the extracted features. While this may not impact
classification, which is robust to small translations, it has a
large negative effect on predicting pixel-accurate masks.
To address this, we propose an RoIAlign layer that removes the harsh quantization of RoIPool, properly aligning
the extracted features with the input. Our proposed change
is simple: we avoid any quantization of the RoI boundaries or bins (i.e., we use x/16 instead of [x/16]). We use bilinear interpolation [22] to compute the exact values of the
input features at four regularly sampled locations in each
RoI bin, and aggregate the result (using max or average),
see Figure 3 for details. We note that the results are not sensitive to the exact sampling locations, or how many points
are sampled, as long as no quantization is performed.
RoIAlign leads to large improvements as we show in
§4.2. We also compare to the RoIWarp operation proposed
in [10]. Unlike RoIAlign, RoIWarp overlooked the alignment issue and was implemented in [10] as quantizing RoI
just like RoIPool. So even though RoIWarp also adopts
bilinear resampling motivated by [22], it performs on par
with RoIPool as shown by experiments (more details in Table 2c), demonstrating the crucial role of alignment.
Network Architecture: To demonstrate the generality of
our approach, we instantiate Mask R-CNN with multiple
architectures. For clarity, we differentiate between: (i) the
convolutional backbone architecture used for feature extraction over an entire image, and (ii) the network head
for bounding-box recognition (classification and regression)
and mask prediction that is applied separately to each RoI.
We denote the backbone architecture using the nomenclature network-depth-features. We evaluate ResNet [19]
and ResNeXt [45] networks of depth 50 or 101 layers. The
original implementation of Faster R-CNN with ResNets
[19] extracted features from the final convolutional layer
of the 4-th stage, which we call C4. This backbone with
ResNet-50, for example, is denoted by ResNet-50-C4. This
is a common choice used in [19, 10, 21, 39].
We also explore another more effective backbone recently proposed by Lin et al. [27], called a Feature Pyramid Network (FPN). FPN uses a top-down architecture with
lateral connections to build an in-network feature pyramid
from a single-scale input. Faster R-CNN with an FPN backbone extracts RoI features from different levels of the feature pyramid according to their scale, but otherwise the
rest of the approach is similar to vanilla ResNet. Using a
ResNet-FPN backbone for feature extraction with Mask RCNN gives excellent gains in both accuracy and speed. For
further details on FPN, we refer readers to [27].
For the network head we closely follow architectures
presented in previous work to which we add a fully convolutional mask prediction branch. Specifically, we extend the Faster R-CNN box heads from the ResNet [19]
and FPN [27] papers. Details are shown in Figure 4. The
head on the ResNet-C4 backbone includes the 5-th stage of
ResNet (namely, the 9-layer ‘res5’ [19]), which is computeintensive. For FPN, the backbone already includes res5 and
thus allows for a more efficient head that uses fewer filters.
We note that our mask branches have a straightforward
structure. More complex designs have the potential to improve performance but are not the focus of this work.Figure 4. Head Architecture: We extend two existing Faster RCNN heads [19, 27]. Left/Right panels show the heads for the
ResNet C4 and FPN backbones, from [19] and [27], respectively,
to which a mask branch is added. Numbers denote spatial resolution and channels. Arrows denote either conv, deconv, or fc layers
as can be inferred from context (conv preserves spatial dimension
while deconv increases it). All convs are 3×3, except the output
conv which is 1×1, deconvs are 2×2 with stride 2, and we use
ReLU [31] in hidden layers. Left: ‘res5’ denotes ResNet’s fifth
stage, which for simplicity we altered so that the first conv operates on a 7×7 RoI with stride 1 (instead of 14×14 / stride 2 as in
[19]). Right: ‘×4’ denotes a stack of four consecutive convs.3.1. Implementation Details
We set hyper-parameters following existing Fast/Faster
R-CNN work [12, 36, 27]. Although these decisions were
made for object detection in original papers [12, 36, 27], we
found our instance segmentation system is robust to them.
Training: As in Fast R-CNN, an RoI is considered positive
if it has IoU with a ground-truth box of at least 0.5 and
negative otherwise. The mask loss Lmask is defined only on
positive RoIs. The mask target is the intersection between
an RoI and its associated ground-truth mask.
We adopt image-centric training [12]. Images are resized
such that their scale (shorter edge) is 800 pixels [27]. Each
mini-batch has 2 images per GPU and each image has N
sampled RoIs, with a ratio of 1:3 of positive to negatives
[12]. N is 64 for the C4 backbone (as in [12, 36]) and 512
for FPN (as in [27]). We train on 8 GPUs (so effective minibatch size is 16) for 160k iterations, with a learning rate of
0.02 which is decreased by 10 at the 120k iteration. We
use a weight decay of 0.0001 and momentum of 0.9. With
ResNeXt [45], we train with 1 image per GPU and the same
number of iterations, with a starting learning rate of 0.01.
The RPN anchors span 5 scales and 3 aspect ratios, following [27]. For convenient ablation, RPN is trained separately and does not share features with Mask R-CNN, unless specified. For every entry in this paper, RPN and Mask
R-CNN have the same backbones and so they are shareable.
Inference: At test time, the proposal number is 300 for the
C4 backbone (as in [36]) and 1000 for FPN (as in [27]). We
run the box prediction branch on these proposals, followed
by non-maximum suppression [14]. The mask branch is
then applied to the highest scoring 100 detection boxes. Although this differs from the parallel computation used in
training, it speeds up inference and improves accuracy (due
to the use of fewer, more accurate RoIs). The mask branch can predict K masks per RoI, but we only use the k-th mask,
where k is the predicted class by the classification branch.
The m×m floating-number mask output is then resized to
the RoI size, and binarized at a threshold of 0.5.
Note that since we only compute masks on the top 100
detection boxes, Mask R-CNN adds a small overhead to its
Faster R-CNN counterpart (e.g., ∼20% on typical models).4. Experiments: Instance Segmentation
We perform a thorough comparison of Mask R-CNN to
the state of the art along with comprehensive ablations on
the COCO dataset [28]. We report the standard COCO metrics including AP (averaged over IoU thresholds), AP50,
AP75, and APS, APM, APL (AP at different scales). Unless noted, AP is evaluating using mask IoU. As in previous
work [5, 27], we train using the union of 80k train images
and a 35k subset of val images (trainval35k), and report ablations on the remaining 5k val images (minival).
We also report results on test-dev [28].4.1. Main Results
We compare Mask R-CNN to the state-of-the-art methods in instance segmentation in Table 1. All instantiations of our model outperform baseline variants of previous state-of-the-art models. This includes MNC [10]
and FCIS [26], the winners of the COCO 2015 and 2016
segmentation challenges, respectively. Without bells and
whistles, Mask R-CNN with ResNet-101-FPN backbone
outperforms FCIS+++ [26], which includes multi-scale
train/test, horizontal flip test, and online hard example mining (OHEM) [38]. While outside the scope of this work, we
expect many such improvements to be applicable to ours.
Mask R-CNN outputs are visualized in Figures 2 and 5.
Mask R-CNN achieves good results even under challenging conditions. In Figure 6 we compare our Mask R-CNN
baseline and FCIS+++ [26]. FCIS+++ exhibits systematic
artifacts on overlapping instances, suggesting that it is challenged by the fundamental difficulty of instance segmentation. Mask R-CNN shows no such artifacts.4.2. Ablation Experiments
We run a number of ablations to analyze Mask R-CNN.
Results are shown in Table 2 and discussed in detail next.
Architecture: Table 2a shows Mask R-CNN with various
backbones. It benefits from deeper networks (50 vs. 101)
and advanced designs including FPN and ResNeXt. We
note that not all frameworks automatically benefit from
deeper or advanced networks (see benchmarking in [21]).
Multinomial vs. Independent Masks: Mask R-CNN decouples mask and class prediction: as the existing box
branch predicts the class label, we generate a mask for each
class without competition among classes (by a per-pixel sigmoid and a binary loss). In Table 2b, we compare this to
using a per-pixel softmax and a multinomial loss (as commonly used in FCN [30]). This alternative couples the tasks
of mask and class prediction, and results in a severe loss
in mask AP (5.5 points). This suggests that once the instance has been classified as a whole (by the box branch),
it is sufficient to predict a binary mask without concern for
the categories, which makes the model easier to train.
Class-Specific vs. Class-Agnostic Masks: Our default instantiation predicts class-specific masks, i.e., one m×m mask per class. Interestingly, Mask R-CNN with classagnostic masks (i.e., predicting a single m×m output regardless of class) is nearly as effective: it has 29.7 mask AP
vs. 30.3 for the class-specific counterpart on ResNet-50-C4.
This further highlights the division of labor in our approach
which largely decouples classification and segmentation.
RoIAlign: An evaluation of our proposed RoIAlign layer is
shown in Table 2c. For this experiment we use the ResNet50-C4 backbone, which has stride 16. RoIAlign improves
AP by about 3 points over RoIPool, with much of the gain
coming at high IoU (AP75). RoIAlign is insensitive to
max/average pool; we use average in the rest of the paper.
Additionally, we compare with RoIWarp proposed in
MNC [10] that also adopt bilinear sampling. As discussed
in §3, RoIWarp still quantizes the RoI, losing alignment
with the input. As can be seen in Table 2c, RoIWarp performs on par with RoIPool and much worse than RoIAlign.
This highlights that proper alignment is key.
We also evaluate RoIAlign with a ResNet-50-C5 backbone, which has an even larger stride of 32 pixels. We use
the same head as in Figure 4 (right), as the res5 head is not
applicable. Table 2d shows that RoIAlign improves mask
AP by a massive 7.3 points, and mask AP75 by 10.5 points(50% relative improvement). Moreover, we note that with
RoIAlign, using stride-32 C5 features (30.9 AP) is more accurate than using stride-16 C4 features (30.3 AP, Table 2c).
RoIAlign largely resolves the long-standing challenge of
using large-stride features for detection and segmentation.
Finally, RoIAlign shows a gain of 1.5 mask AP and 0.5
box AP when used with FPN, which has finer multi-level
strides. For keypoint detection that requires finer alignment,
RoIAlign shows large gains even with FPN (Table 6).
Mask Branch: Segmentation is a pixel-to-pixel task and
we exploit the spatial layout of masks by using an FCN.
In Table 2e, we compare multi-layer perceptrons (MLP)
and FCNs, using a ResNet-50-FPN backbone. Using FCNs
gives a 2.1 mask AP gain over MLPs. We note that we
choose this backbone so that the conv layers of the FCN
head are not pre-trained, for a fair comparison with MLP.
4.3. Bounding Box Detection Results
We compare Mask R-CNN to the state-of-the-art COCO
bounding-box object detection in Table 3. For this result,
even though the full Mask R-CNN model is trained, only
the classification and box outputs are used at inference (the
mask output is ignored). Mask R-CNN using ResNet-101-
FPN outperforms the base variants of all previous state-ofthe-art models, including the single-model variant of GRMI [21], the winner of the COCO 2016 Detection Challenge. Using ResNeXt-101-FPN, Mask R-CNN further improves results, with a margin of 3.0 points box AP over
the best previous single model entry from [39] (which used
Inception-ResNet-v2-TDM).
As a further comparison, we trained a version of Mask
R-CNN but without the mask branch, denoted by “Faster
R-CNN, RoIAlign” in Table 3. This model performs better
than the model presented in [27] due to RoIAlign. On the
other hand, it is 0.9 points box AP lower than Mask R-CNN.
This gap of Mask R-CNN on box detection is therefore due
solely to the benefits of multi-task training.
Lastly, we note that Mask R-CNN attains a small gap
between its mask and box AP: e.g., 2.7 points between 37.1
(mask, Table 1) and 39.8 (box, Table 3). This indicates that
our approach largely closes the gap between object detection and the more challenging instance segmentation task.4.4. Timing
Inference: We train a ResNet-101-FPN model that shares
features between the RPN and Mask R-CNN stages, following the 4-step training of Faster R-CNN [36]. This model
runs at 195ms per image on an Nvidia Tesla M40 GPU (plus
15ms CPU time resizing the outputs to the original resolution), and achieves statistically the same mask AP as the
unshared one. We also report that the ResNet-101-C4 variant takes ∼400ms as it has a heavier box head (Figure 4), so
we do not recommend using the C4 variant in practice.
Although Mask R-CNN is fast, we note that our design
is not optimized for speed, and better speed/accuracy tradeoffs could be achieved [21], e.g., by varying image sizes and
proposal numbers, which is beyond the scope of this paper.
Training: Mask R-CNN is also fast to train. Training with
ResNet-50-FPN on COCO trainval35k takes 32 hours
in our synchronized 8-GPU implementation (0.72s per 16-
image mini-batch), and 44 hours with ResNet-101-FPN. In
fact, fast prototyping can be completed in less than one day
when training on the train set. We hope such rapid training will remove a major hurdle in this area and encourage
more people to perform research on this challenging topic.
5. Mask R-CNN for Human Pose Estimation
Our framework can easily be extended to human pose
estimation. We model a keypoint’s location as a one-hot
mask, and adopt Mask R-CNN to predict K masks, one for
each of K keypoint types (e.g., left shoulder, right elbow).
This task helps demonstrate the flexibility of Mask R-CNN.
We note that minimal domain knowledge for human pose
is exploited by our system, as the experiments are mainly to
demonstrate the generality of the Mask R-CNN framework.
We expect that domain knowledge (e.g., modeling structures [6]) will be complementary to our simple approach.
Implementation Details: We make minor modifications to
the segmentation system when adapting it for keypoints.
For each of the K keypoints of an instance, the training
target is a one-hot m × m binary mask where only a single
pixel is labeled as foreground. During training, for each visible ground-truth keypoint, we minimize the cross-entropy
loss over an m2
-way softmax output (which encourages a single point to be detected). We note that as in instance segmentation, the K keypoints are still treated independently.
We adopt the ResNet-FPN variant, and the keypoint head
architecture is similar to that in Figure 4 (right). The keypoint head consists of a stack of eight 3×3 512-d conv layers, followed by a deconv layer and 2× bilinear upscaling,
producing an output resolution of 56×56. We found that
a relatively high resolution output (compared to masks) is
required for keypoint-level localization accuracy.
Models are trained on all COCO trainval35k images that contain annotated keypoints. To reduce overfitting, as this training set is smaller, we train using image
scales randomly sampled from [640, 800] pixels; inference
is on a single scale of 800 pixels. We train for 90k iterations,
starting from a learning rate of 0.02 and reducing it by 10 at
60k and 80k iterations. We use bounding-box NMS with a
threshold of 0.5. Other details are identical as in §3.1.
Main Results and Ablations: We evaluate the person keypoint AP (APkp) and experiment with a ResNet-50-FPN
backbone; more backbones will be studied in the appendix.
Table 4 shows that our result (62.7 APkp) is 0.9 points higher
than the COCO 2016 keypoint detection winner [6] that
uses a multi-stage processing pipeline (see caption of Table 4). Our method is considerably simpler and faster.
More importantly, we have a unified model that can simultaneously predict boxes, segments, and keypoints while
running at 5 fps. Adding a segment branch (for the person category) improves the APkp to 63.1 (Table 4) on
test-dev. More ablations of multi-task learning on
minival are in Table 5. Adding the mask branch to the
box-only (i.e., Faster R-CNN) or keypoint-only versions
consistently improves these tasks. However, adding the
keypoint branch reduces the box/mask AP slightly, suggesting that while keypoint detection benefits from multitask
training, it does not in turn help the other tasks. Nevertheless, learning all three tasks jointly enables a unified system
to efficiently predict all outputs simultaneously (Figure 7).
We also investigate the effect of RoIAlign on keypoint
detection (Table 6). Though this ResNet-50-FPN backbone
has finer strides (e.g., 4 pixels on the finest level), RoIAlign
still shows significant improvement over RoIPool and increases APkp by 4.4 points. This is because keypoint detections are more sensitive to localization accuracy. This again
indicates that alignment is essential for pixel-level localization, including masks and keypoints.
Given the effectiveness of Mask R-CNN for extracting
object bounding boxes, masks, and keypoints, we expect it
be an effective framework for other instance-level tasks.Appendix A: Experiments on Cityscapes
We further report instance segmentation results on the
Cityscapes [7] dataset. This dataset has fine annotations for 2975 train, 500 val, and 1525 test images. It has
20k coarse training images without instance annotations,
which we do not use. All images are 2048×1024 pixels.
The instance segmentation task involves 8 object categories,
whose numbers of instances on the fine training set are:
person rider car truck bus train mcycle bicycle
17.9k 1.8k 26.9k 0.5k 0.4k 0.2k 0.7k 3.7k
Instance segmentation performance on this task is measured
by the COCO-style mask AP (averaged over IoU thresholds); AP50 (i.e., mask AP at an IoU of 0.5) is also reported.
Implementation: We apply our Mask R-CNN models with
the ResNet-FPN-50 backbone; we found the 101-layer
counterpart performs similarly due to the small dataset size.
We train with image scale (shorter side) randomly sampled
from [800, 1024], which reduces overfitting; inference is on
a single scale of 1024 pixels. We use a mini-batch size of
1 image per GPU (so 8 on 8 GPUs) and train the model
for 24k iterations, starting from a learning rate of 0.01 and
reducing it to 0.001 at 18k iterations. It takes ∼4 hours of
training on a single 8-GPU machine under this setting.
Results: Table 7 compares our results to the state of the
art on the val and test sets. Without using the coarse
training set, our method achieves 26.2 AP on test, which
is over 30% relative improvement over the previous best entry (DIN [3]), and is also better than the concurrent work of
SGN’s 25.0 [29]. Both DIN and SGN use fine + coarse
data. Compared to the best entry using fine data only
(17.4 AP), we achieve a ∼50% improvement.
For the person and car categories, the Cityscapes dataset
exhibits a large number of within-category overlapping instances (on average 6 people and 9 cars per image). We
argue that within-category overlap is a core difficulty of instance segmentation. Our method shows massive improvement on these two categories over the other best entries (relative ∼40% improvement on person from 21.8 to 30.5 and
∼20% improvement on car from 39.4 to 46.9), even though
our method does not exploit the coarse data.
A main challenge of the Cityscapes dataset is training
models in a low-data regime, particularly for the categories
of truck, bus, and train, which have about 200-500 train ing samples each. To partially remedy this issue, we further
report a result using COCO pre-training. To do this, we initialize the corresponding 7 categories in Cityscapes from a
pre-trained COCO Mask R-CNN model (rider being randomly initialized). We fine-tune this model for 4k iterations
in which the learning rate is reduced at 3k iterations, which
takes ∼1 hour for training given the COCO model.
The COCO pre-trained Mask R-CNN model achieves
32.0 AP on test, almost a 6 point improvement over the
fine-only counterpart. This indicates the important role
the amount of training data plays. It also suggests that
methods on Cityscapes might be influenced by their lowshot learning performance. We show that using COCO pretraining is an effective strategy on this dataset.
Finally, we observed a bias between the val and test
AP, as is also observed from the results of [23, 4, 29]. We
found that this bias is mainly caused by the truck, bus,
and train categories, with the fine-only model having
val/test AP of 28.8/22.8, 53.5/32.2, and 33.0/18.6, respectively. This suggests that there is a domain shift on
these categories, which also have little training data. COCO
pre-training helps to improve results the most on these categories; however, the domain shift persists with 38.0/30.1,
57.5/40.9, and 41.2/30.9 val/test AP, respectively. Note
that for the person and car categories we do not see any
such bias (val/test AP are within ±1 point).
Example results on Cityscapes are shown in Figure 8.Appendix B: Enhanced Results on COCO
As a general framework, Mask R-CNN is compatible with complementary techniques developed for detection/segmentation, including improvements made to
Fast/Faster R-CNN and FCNs. In this appendix we describe some techniques that improve over our original results. Thanks to its generality and flexibility, Mask R-CNN
was used as the framework by the three winning teams in
the COCO 2017 instance segmentation competition, which
all significantly outperformed the previous state of the art.
Instance Segmentation and Object Detection
We report some enhanced results of Mask R-CNN in Table 8. Overall, the improvements increase mask AP 5.1
points (from 36.7 to 41.8) and box AP 7.7 points (from 39.6
to 47.3). Each model improvement increases both mask AP
and box AP consistently, showing good generalization of
the Mask R-CNN framework. We detail the improvements
next. These results, along with future updates, can be reproduced by our released code at https://github.com/
facebookresearch/Detectron, and can serve as
higher baselines for future research.
Updated baseline: We start with an updated baseline
with a different set of hyper-parameters. We lengthen the
training to 180k iterations, in which the learning rate is reduced by 10 at 120k and 160k iterations. We also change
the NMS threshold to 0.5 (from a default value of 0.3). The
updated baseline has 37.0 mask AP and 40.5 box AP.
End-to-end training: All previous results used stagewise training, i.e., training RPN as the first stage and Mask
R-CNN as the second. Following [37], we evaluate endto-end (‘e2e’) training that jointly trains RPN and Mask RCNN. We adopt the ‘approximate’ version in [37] that only
computes partial gradients in the RoIAlign layer by ignoring the gradient w.r.t. RoI coordinates. Table 8 shows that
e2e training improves mask AP by 0.6 and box AP by 1.2.
ImageNet-5k pre-training: Following [45], we experiment with models pre-trained on a 5k-class subset of ImageNet (in contrast to the standard 1k-class subset). This 5×
increase in pre-training data improves both mask and box 1
AP. As a reference, [40] used ∼250× more images (300M)
and reported a 2-3 box AP improvement on their baselinesTrain-time augmentation: Scale augmentation at train
time further improves results. During training, we randomly
sample a scale from [640, 800] pixels and we increase the
number of iterations to 260k (with the learning rate reduced
by 10 at 200k and 240k iterations). Train-time augmentation improves mask AP by 0.6 and box AP by 0.8.
Model architecture: By upgrading the 101-layer
ResNeXt to its 152-layer counterpart [19], we observe an
increase of 0.5 mask AP and 0.6 box AP. This shows a
deeper model can still improve results on COCO.
Using the recently proposed non-local (NL) model [43],
we achieve 40.3 mask AP and 45.0 box AP. This result is
without test-time augmentation, and the method runs at 3fps
on an Nvidia Tesla P100 GPU at test time.
Test-time augmentation: We combine the model results
evaluated using scales of [400, 1200] pixels with a step of
100 and on their horizontal flips. This gives us a singlemodel result of 41.8 mask AP and 47.3 box AP.
The above result is the foundation of our submission to
the COCO 2017 competition (which also used an ensemble,
not discussed here). The first three winning teams for the
instance segmentation task were all reportedly based on an
extension of the Mask R-CNN framework.
Keypoint Detection
We report enhanced results of keypoint detection in Table 9. As an updated baseline, we extend the training schedule to 130k iterations in which the learning rate is reduced
by 10 at 100k and 120k iterations. This improves APkp by
about 1 point. Replacing ResNet-50 with ResNet-101 and
ResNeXt-101 increases APkp to 66.1 and 67.3, respectively.
With a recent method called data distillation [35], we are
able to exploit the additional 120k unlabeled images provided by COCO. In brief, data distillation is a self-training
strategy that uses a model trained on labeled data to predict annotations on unlabeled images, and in turn updates
the model with these new annotations. Mask R-CNN provides an effective framework for such a self-training strategy. With data distillation, Mask R-CNN APkp improve by
1.8 points to 69.1. We observe that Mask R-CNN can benefit from extra data, even if that data is unlabeled.
By using the same test-time augmentation as used for
instance segmentation, we further boost APkp to 70.4.Acknowledgements: We would like to acknowledge Ilija
Radosavovic for contributions to code release and enhanced
results, and the Caffe2 team for engineering support.
